20 work in learnersbeginner rses (#21)
CaptainSifff/paper_teaching-learning-RSE: paper_teaching-learning-RSE.md

There are various facets to working in a team. They range from functioning in a team to leading a team.
It includes following measures that increase team cohesion like performing code reviews.

#### Current Day Contextualization

> These skills, while already numerous are also on purpose generic. Concrete examples can be obtained by the outcome from the Paderborn workshop, where we asked young people of what they would liked to have learnt.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These skills, while already numerous are also on purpose generic. Concrete examples can be obtained by the outcome from the Paderborn workshop, where we asked learners and beginner RSEs of what they would liked to have learnt.
```
We definitely did not have only young people in the group, but people that were new to the concept of RSE.

Author: Right!

Among the top five things mentioned were:

- Testing. This task is a manifestation of the SE competencies of DOCBB and MOD since a model of the software is required in order to write good test that facilitate understanding and documentation. Today this encompasses the knowledge of testing frameworks and CI/CD practices.
- Contributing to large projects. This is a topic that requires competency in SWREPOS
, LEG, in order to understand the ramifications of sharing, DOCBB, since the contributed code has to be understood by others, and TEAM, since one is becoming part of the project depending on the involvement. Today this entails the effecive use of collaborative platforms like github/gitlab, honoring a projects Code of Conduct, and some knowledge of software licenses like the GPL.

> - When or why to keep repositories private. This decision requires knowledge in the RC, to understand when it makes sense, USERS and TEAM in order to do accepted decisions and sometimes LEG. This requires domain and location knowledge in the sense that one should know what the practices of an institution are.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- When or why to keep repositories private. This decision requires knowledge in the RC, to understand when it makes sense, USERS and TEAM in order to do accepted decisions and sometimes LEG. This requires domain and location knowledge in the sense that one should know what the practices of ones own institution are.
```
?

- Proper Development. This broad topic requires all of the SE skills. Of course these are the competencies that are the most fluid since they have to adapt at a high rate to the technological advancements. Additionally proper SE skills often require knowledge of TEAM, and PM.

> Today this means effective use od IDEs, static analysis tools, design patterns, ...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Today this means effective use of IDEs, static analysis tools, design patterns, documentation (for oneself and others), testing, etc. 
```

Reviewer: updated

> - Finding a group community. Since this deals with software that is supposed to be used in research this requires knowledge of RC, USERS, and also NEW, in order to effectively interact with domain scientists. Today this can be a presence on social media.

Reviewer: While this was also discussed, the group also discussed around the missing structure for "employability" of RSEs, the career path was unclear. 
Was this maybe left out on purpose here?

> - Finding a group community. Since this deals with software that is supposed to be used in research this requires knowledge of RC, USERS, and also NEW, in order to effectively interact with domain scientists. Today this can be a presence on social media.

Reviewer 2: The community part was also mentioned in my group and it was ultimate about finding multiple groups that can each benefit in their own way. Examples were:
- The user/developer group around the software(s) I use 
- More language specific groups like Julia meetups etc.
- (local) RSE groups for general discussions about SE in the research context 

I'm not quite sure how we can briefly work this in but maybe I'll have an idea the next days.

Author: Great idea!

Author: let's work into the aspect of finding RSE communities.

Author: I addded that point, I think. What do you think @jpthiele

Reviewer 2: I think it's good apart from the "first" because this makes everybody expect at least a second which is not in that section but below. So maybe at least a short reference to the coming section?

Author: Ah, sorry.... I forgot to commit... Now I have added the text part on giving RSEs a social safety net.
